administration: add troubleshooting including tap functionality (#929)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: administration/troubleshooting.md

# Troubleshooting

* [Tap Functionality: generate events or records](troubleshooting.md#tap-functionality)
* [Dump Internals Signal](troubleshooting.md#dump-internals--signal)

## Tap Functionality

> Tracing can be used to generate events or records detailing what messages

Reviewer: Agree with that. We should call it Tap everywhere. cc @elenacbc

pass through Fluent Bit, at what time and what filters affect them.

> To test out Fluent Bit Tap we will be using a publicly accessible docker container: 'fluent/fluent-bit:latest

Author: @lecaros Do i delete all lines from 8-12 included?

> To test out Fluent Bit Tap we will be using a publicly accessible docker container: 'fluent/fluent-bit:latest

Reviewer: No, only 11 and 12

'.

### Simple example

> First we will make sure that the container we are going to use actually supports Fluent Bit Tap (available in Fluent Bit 2.0+):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we will make sure that the container image we are going to use actually supports Fluent Bit Tap (available in Fluent Bit 2.0+):
```

```shell
$ docker run --rm -ti ghcr.io/calyptia/core/calyptia-fluent-bit:main --help | grep -Z
  -Z, --enable-chunk-trace     enable chunk tracing. activating it requires using the HTTP Server API.
```

If the `--enable-chunk-trace` option is present it means Fluent Bit has support for Fluent Bit Tap but it is disabled by default, so remember to enable it with this option.

Tap support is enabled and disabled via the embedded web server, so enable it like so (or the equivalent option in the configuration file):

```shell
$ docker run --rm -ti -p 2020:2020 ghcr.io/calyptia/core/calyptia-fluent-bit:main -Z -H -i dummy -p alias=input_dummy -o stdout -f 1

> Calyptia Fluent Bit v22.8, patch_level=1

Reviewer: run the docker run command and replace this log with the new one (upstream version info)

* Enterprise Fluent Bit by Calyptia
* https://calyptia.com
* https://fluentbit.io

[2022/07/27 20:02:04] [ info] [calyptia fluent bit] version=22.8 patch=1 pid=1
[2022/07/27 20:02:04] [ info] [storage] version=1.2.0, type=memory-only, sync=normal, checksum=disabled, max_chunks_up=128
[2022/07/27 20:02:04] [ info] [cmetrics] version=0.3.5
[2022/07/27 20:02:04] [ info] [output:stdout:stdout.0] worker #0 started
[2022/07/27 20:02:04] [ info] [http_server] listen iface=0.0.0.0 tcp_port=2020
[2022/07/27 20:02:04] [ info] [sp] stream processor started
[0] dummy.0: [1658952125.096215620, {"message"=>"dummy"}]
[0] dummy.0: [1658952126.096222898, {"message"=>"dummy"}]
[0] dummy.0: [1658952127.096220305, {"message"=>"dummy"}]
...
```

> In another window we can activate tracing by either using the instance id of the input; `dummy.0` or its alias. Since the alias is more predictable that is what we will use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In another window we can activate Tap by either using the instance id of the input; `dummy.0` or its alias. Since the alias is more predictable that is what we will use:
```

```shell
$ curl 127.0.0.1:2020/api/v1/trace/input_dummy
{"status":"ok"}
```

> This response means we have activated tracing, the window with fluent-bit running should now look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This response means we have activated Tap, the window with Fluent Bit running should now look like this:
```

[0] dummy.0: [1658952149.096214459, {"message"=>"dummy"}]
[0] dummy.0: [1658952150.096211929, {"message"=>"dummy"}]
[0] trace: [1658952150.096228881, {"type"=>1, "trace_id"=>"trace.0", "plugin_instance"=>"dummy.0", "plugin_alias"=>"input_dummy", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658952150, "record"=>{"message"=>"dummy"}}], "start_time"=>1658952150, "end_time"=>1658952150}]
[0] trace: [1658952150.096242907, {"type"=>3, "trace_id"=>"trace.0", "plugin_instance"=>"dummy.0", "plugin_alias"=>"input_dummy", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658952150, "record"=>{"message"=>"dummy"}}], "start_time"=>1658952150, "end_time"=>1658952150}]
[0] dummy.0: [1658952151.096210939, [0] trace: [1658952151.096230847, {"type"=>1, "trace_id"=>"trace.1", "plugin_instance"=>"dummy.0", "plugin_alias"=>"input_dummy", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>{1658952151"message"=>, "dummy"}"record"=>]
{"message"=>"dummy"}}], "start_time"=>1658952151, "end_time"=>1658952151}]
[0] trace: [1658952151.096258529, {"type"=>3, "trace_id"=>"trace.1", "plugin_instance"=>"dummy.0", "plugin_alias"=>"input_dummy", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658952151, "record"=>{"message"=>"dummy"}}], "start_time"=>1658952151, "end_time"=>1658952151}]
```

> All the records that now appear under trace are trace records emitted by the activities of the dummy plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the records that now appear are those emitted by the activities of the dummy plugin.
```

### Complex example

> This example takes the same steps but demonstrates the same mechanism works with more complicated configurations. In this example we will trace a single input of many which passes through several filters.

Reviewer 2: Split these sentences on to separate lines for easier review.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example takes the same steps but demonstrates the same mechanism works with more complicated configurations. 
In this example we will follow a single input of many which passes through several filters.
```

```
$ docker run --rm -ti -p 2020:2020 \
	ghcr.io/calyptia/core/calyptia-fluent-bit:main \
	-Z -H \
		-i dummy -p alias=dummy_0 -p \
			dummy='{"dummy": "dummy_0", "key_name": "foo", "key_cnt": "1"}' \
		-i dummy -p alias=dummy_1 -p dummy='{"dummy": "dummy_1"}' \
		-i dummy -p alias=dummy_2 -p dummy='{"dummy": "dummy_2"}' \
		-F record_modifier -m 'dummy.0' -p record="powered_by calyptia" \
		-F record_modifier -m 'dummy.1' -p record="powered_by fluent-bit" \
		-F nest -m 'dummy.0' \
			-p operation=nest -p wildcard='key_*' -p nest_under=data \
		-o null -m '*' -f 1
```

To make sure the window is not cluttered by the actual records generated by the input plugins we send all of it to `null`.

> We activate tracing with the following curl command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We activate with the following `curl` command:
```

```shell
$ curl 127.0.0.1:2020/api/v1/trace/dummy_0
{"status":"ok"}
```

> Once we activate tracing we should see the trace records:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we should start seeing output similar to the following:
```

```

Now we should start seeing output similar to the following:

```shell

> [0] trace: [1658953434.096232706, {"type"=>1, "trace_id"=>"trace.0", "plugin_instance"=>"dummy.0", "plugin_alias"=>"dummy_0", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658953434, "record"=>{"dummy"=>"dummy_0", "key_name"=>"foo", "key_cnt"=>"1"}}], "start_time"=>1658953434, "end_time"=>1658953434}]

Reviewer: Replace these lines with the actual output with the modified docker run command

[2022/07/27 20:24:01] [ info] [engine] service has stopped (0 pending tasks)
[0] trace: [1658953440.096277973, {"type"=>2, "start_time"=>1658953440, "end_time"=>1658953440, "trace_id"=>"trace.6", "plugin_instance"=>"record_modifier.0", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658953440, "record"=>{"dummy"=>"dummy_0", "key_name"=>"foo", "key_cnt"=>"1", "powered_by"=>"calyptia"}}]}]
[0] trace: [1658953440.096291459, {"type"=>2, "start_time"=>1658953440, "end_time"=>1658953440, "trace_id"=>"trace.6", "plugin_instance"=>"nest.2", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658953440, "record"=>{"dummy"=>"dummy_0", "powered_by"=>"calyptia", "data"=>{"key_name"=>"foo", "key_cnt"=>"1"}}}]}]
[0] trace: [1658953440.096298913, {"type"=>3, "trace_id"=>"trace.6", "plugin_instance"=>"dummy.0", "plugin_alias"=>"dummy_0", "records"=>[{"timestamp"=>1658953440, "record"=>{"dummy"=>"dummy_0", "powered_by"=>"calyptia", "data"=>{"key_name"=>"foo", "key_cnt"=>"1"}}}], "start_time"=>1658953440, "end_time"=>1658953440}]
```

> ### Analysis of a single trace record

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Analysis of a single Tap record
```

> Here I analyze a single trace record from a filter event to explain the meaning of each field in detail. I chose a filter record since it includes the most details of all the record types.

Reviewer 2: As always, split on to separate lines.

```suggestion
Here we analyze a single record from a filter event to explain the meaning of each field in detail. 
We chose a filter record since it includes the most details of all the record types.
```

### Analysis of a single Tap record

Here we analyze a single record from a filter event to explain the meaning of each field in detail. 
We chose a filter record since it includes the most details of all the record types.

```json

> {

Reviewer: This should also be replaced with new output

	"plugin_instance": "nest.2", 
	"records": [{
		"timestamp": 1658953439,
		"record": {
			"dummy": "dummy_0",
			"powered_by": "calyptia",
			"data": {
				"key_name": "foo", 
				"key_cnt": "1"
			}
		}
	}]
}
```

### type

The type defines at what stage the event is generated:

- type=1: input record
  - this is the unadulterated input record
- type=2: filtered record
  - this is a record once it has been filtered. One record is generated per filter.
- type=3: pre-output record
  - this is the record right before it is sent for output.

Since this is a record generated by the manipulation of a record by a filter is has the type `2`.

### start_time and end_time

This records the start and end of an event, it is a bit different for each event type:

- type 1: when the input is received, both the start and end time.
- type 2: the time when filtering is matched until it has finished processing.
- type 3: the time when the input is received and when it is finally slated for output.

### trace_id

This is a string composed of a prefix and a number which is incremented with each record received by the input during the trace session.

### plugin_instance

> This is the plugin instance name as it is generated by fluent-bit at runtime.

Reviewer 2: Fluent Bit
```suggestion
This is the plugin instance name as it is generated by Fluent Bit at runtime.
```

| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| total\_chunks |  | Total number of Chunks generated by the input plugin that are still being processed by the engine. |
| up\_chunks |  | Total number of Chunks that are loaded in memory. |
| down\_chunks |  | Total number of Chunks that are stored in the filesystem but not loaded in memory yet. |
| busy\_chunks |  | Chunks marked as busy \(being flushed\) or locked. Busy Chunks are immutable and likely are ready to \(or being\) processed. |
|  | size | Amount of bytes used by the Chunk. |
|  | size err | Number of Chunks in an error state where it size could not be retrieved. |

### Storage Layer Dump

Fluent Bit relies on a custom storage layer interface designed for hybrid buffering. The `Storage Layer` entry contains a total summary of Chunks registered by Fluent Bit:

| Entry | Sub-Entry | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| total chunks |  | Total number of Chunks |
| mem chunks |  | Total number of Chunks memory-based |
| fs chunks |  | Total number of Chunks filesystem based |
|  | up | Total number of filesystem chunks up in memory |
|  | down | Total number of filesystem chunks down \(not loaded in memory\) |

> [README.md](https://github.com/calyptia/core-images/files/9203490/README.md)

Reviewer 2: Remove as not public

# Troubleshooting

* [Tap Functionality: generate events or records](troubleshooting.md#tap-functionality)
* [Dump Internals Signal](troubleshooting.md#dump-internals--signal)

## Tap Functionality

Tap can be used to generate events or records detailing what messages
pass through Fluent Bit, at what time and what filters affect them.

To test out Fluent Bit Tap we will be using a publicly accessible docker container: 'fluent/fluent-bit:latest

> '.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
